Apartment fire with rescue of people in Barbarossaring
Published July 27, 2024 · Updated December 23, 2024

Shortly after 4:00 p.m. on July 27, 2024, the integrated control center in Kaiserslautern received more than two dozen emergency calls from the eastern part of the city within a very short time. The control center dispatchers quickly came to the conclusion that it was an apartment fire on the first floor of an apartment building. Since it could not be ruled out whether there were still people in the four-story apartment building, a fire engine from the Kaiserslautern volunteer fire department was dispatched to the scene in addition to four emergency vehicles from the professional fire department. A comparison with the registration register showed that 15 people were registered in the building. Based on this information, the control center simultaneously alerted several ambulances, a senior emergency doctor and an organizational manager for the rescue service to the scene. The police were also informed, but had already dispatched patrol cars due to a large number of emergency calls from their own emergency number.

Shortly before the scene of the incident, the first ambulance to arrive, which had only been a few hundred meters away, reported that flames were coming from a window on the first floor and that the stairwell of the building was filled with smoke.

A firefighting attack by the fire department via the stairwell into the burning apartment and the parallel search for missing people in the stairwell as well as extensive ventilation measures were quickly successful. After just a few minutes it was clear that there was no one left in the building or in the burning apartment. However, the apartment burned down completely. Other parts of the building were also affected, so that the public order office had to temporarily accommodate five people and a dog elsewhere.

During the operation, which lasted several hours, the volunteer fire department of the city of Kaiserslautern ensured basic protection for the entire city area. The SWK was also on duty.