Apartment fire with personal injuries in Kapellenweg
Published January 13, 2025 · Updated January 13, 2025

A 68-year-old resident died in an apartment fire in Kapellenweg over the weekend.

On the evening of last Saturday (January 11, 2024), the Kaiserslautern fire department was alerted to an apartment building in Kapellenweg. An unclear smoke development was reported from an attic apartment.

The first police officers to arrive confirmed this report before the fire engine arrived. When the fire department arrived, the building had already been evacuated. The residents of an apartment not affected by the fire had become aware of the fire, warned the other tenants and left the building unharmed. The police questioned the evacuated people and assigned them to the individual apartments. It quickly became clear that the resident of the attic apartment was missing.

The fire brigade's attack team, wearing breathing apparatus, entered the burning apartment but was initially blocked from opening the apartment door because the apartment was fully ablaze in the entrance area. As they continued to advance, the team found the resident in the heavily smoke-filled rooms. Two other teams immediately initiated the rescue operation. However, after the patient was handed over to the emergency services, only her death could be confirmed.

The fire was quickly brought under control. However, as it was an attic apartment, longer follow-up extinguishing work was necessary.

The residents of the other apartments were able to stay temporarily in the stairwells of the neighboring buildings during the extinguishing work due to the winter temperatures. After the fire brigade's measures had been completed, they returned to their apartments, which were not affected by the fire.

The criminal investigation department, which was called in, has begun investigating the cause of the fire. The material damage caused is estimated to be in the high five-figure range.

From the fire brigade's point of view, operations manager Jörg Tremmel praised the professional cooperation between the police and the emergency services.