Severe weather in Rhineland-Palatinate: Large deployment of the fire brigades and helpers
Published 21.05.2024 · updated 24.07.2024

On Friday, May 17, 2024, there were violent storms with heavy rain in Rhineland-Palatinate, Saarland and the northern Baden-Württemberg in the evenings. The city of Zweibrücken was particularly severe, in which many areas were flooded. Several streets were without electricity, the residents were evacuated and housed in emergency shelters.

The integrated control center Kaiserslautern was commissioned by the supervisory and service directorate in Trier to organize emergency services. In consultation between the city of Kaiserslautern, the districts of Kaiserslautern, Kusel and the Donnersberg district, fire brigade units were mobilized to help in the affected areas.

The first unit left the courtyard of the Kaiserslautern fire station late Friday evening and drove to Waldfischbach-Burgalben to protect the sewage treatment plant there from flooding and a total failure with the largest available pump. This assignment lasted until Sunday evening.

From Saturday morning to Sunday evening, the state specialist unit Puma, a unit from Kaiserslautern specialized in press and media work, was deployed in Zweibrücken. Among other things, the Prime Minister, the Interior Minister and the Environment Minister were brought to the particularly affected areas in order to get an idea of ​​the situation.

Also from Saturday morning, around 25 emergency services from the city and the district of Kaiserslautern with special vehicles in Zweibrücken were deployed to support the local emergency services. Together with other forces from Mainz, Ingelheim, the THW from Stuttgart and the local fire brigades, many million liters of water were pumped out. It was particularly important to use the Nardini Hospital, which was also affected by the floods. A quick and targeted use could avert the impending evacuation of the hospital.

The fire brigade was also supported by the fire brigade. Three young canoe drivers who had been in need on the Saar were able to get themselves to safety, but the emergency doctor and height rescuers of the Kaiserslautern professional fire brigade had to abseiled to a patient at the next registered emergency.

On Sunday, too, units from the alarm area of ​​the integrated control center Kaiserslautern were deployed in the most serious areas. Löschezen from the Donnersberg district and the district of Kaiserslautern drove to Zweibrücken, while emergency services from the district of Kusel in Konz on the Moselle helped. The willingness of the city of Kaiserslautern were no longer needed on Sunday.

This weekend it has been shown again that the saying "one for all, all for one" at the fire brigade, or rather with the entire blue light family, is still lived. We thank all the emergency services who helped the local people.