Housing fire with personal injury in the Kapellenweg
Published 13.01.2025 · Updated 13.01.2025

A 68-year-old resident died at a fire in the Kapellenweg at the weekend.

On the evening of last Saturday (January 11th, 2024), the Kaiserslautern fire brigade was alerted to a multi -party building in Kapellenweg. An unclear smoke development from an attic apartment was registered.

The police who arrived at first confirmed this report before the fire truck arrived. The building was already cleared on the arrival of the fire brigade. The residents of an apartment not affected by the fire had become aware of the fire, warned the other tenants and left the building unharmed. The police interviewed the evacuated persons and assigned them to the individual apartments. So it quickly became clear that the resident of the attic was missing.

After opening the apartment door, the fire brigade, which was imminent in the fire apartment, was initially blocked after opening the apartment door, as the apartment in the access area was in full fire. During the further advance, the squad found the resident in the heavily smoky rooms. Two other teams immediately initiated the rescue. Nevertheless, after the patient was handed over to the emergency services, only her death could be found.

The fire could be quickly brought under control. Since it was an attic apartment, however, long -term reversal work was necessary.

The residents of the other apartments were able to temporarily stay in the stairwells of the neighboring buildings during the extinguishing work due to the winter temperatures. After completing the fire brigade measures, they returned to their apartments, which were not impaired by the fire.

The criminal police called in has started the cause of the fire. The property damage incurred is estimated on a higher five -digit amount.

Operations manager Jörg Tremmel praised the professional cooperation between the police and emergency services from the fire brigade's point of view.