On the night of Thursday, July 15, 2021, immense amounts of rain fell in the Eifel and the Ahrweiler district. As a result, a flash flood occurred on the Ahr, which caused considerable damage. Cars, caravans, trees and even entire houses were swept away by the current. A total of 60 bridges were destroyed in the Ahr valley. More than 120 people have lost their lives, and many residents are still missing.

On Saturday, July 17, 2021, emergency services from the Koblenz professional and volunteer fire department met at the fire station. For supra-local assistance, a forest fire extinguisher, a rescue vehicle, two multi-purpose vehicles and two fire engines were put together and moved to the staging area at the Nürburgring. The fire engine with a crew of 6 from the Rübenach unit was there. From there, it went to Kreuzberg on the Ahr. The task there was to check flooded and damaged houses.

On Sunday, July 18th The Koblenz platoon was tasked with exploring the village of Kesseling and surrounding areas, as the situation there was not known. After a citizen pointed out that the village of Rech was completely cut off from the outside world, the platoon was split. The off-road vehicles drove along forest paths to Rech, the rest were deployed in Ahrbrück. The tasks are essentially to ensure fire protection, pump out cellars and clear buildings.
In Rech, the scene was one of destruction, many houses were massively damaged, eight houses were completely swept away by the flood. Here, too, the bridge collapsed, and supplies to the population are being provided by air transport with helicopters. In the village itself, there was no electricity, no drinking water and no telephone.
The extent of the destruction and the suffering of those affected are deeply impressive. The solidarity and organization of the population is remarkable. We encounter despair, hope and great gratitude in equal measure.
The Rübenach unit has been deployed with its rescue vehicle since July 18th and now moves to the Ahr valley every other day.
For the next few days, Koblenz fire brigade units will continue to provide support in this area. Auxiliary personnel from the Bundeswehr, THW, police, fire brigade and rescue services from all over Germany are deployed on site.

On July 26, 2021, the operation for the Koblenz fire brigade was terminated, and additional standby units are ready that have not yet been deployed. The Rübenach unit was deployed in the Ahr Valley for 6 days.