S4 - Flooding in the Ahr Valley
07562267 5DA0 4C31 87C9 6D65501FED70 scaled
Mission number: 015/2021
Date/time: July 16, 2021 at 6:30 a.m.
Mission report: S4 - Flooding in the Ahr Valley
Location: Rech, Ahr Valley
Type of alarm: Agreement, FME
Duration of operation: 10 hours 30 minutes
Units:
LE 03 - Vettelschoß
FEZ Linz, FW Leubsdorf, FW Linz am Rhein, FW St. Katharinen, numerous other units from the entire area
Mission report:
On the second day of the flood disaster, Rech was reached by firefighters from Vettelschoß and St. Katharinen, as well as the fire chief of the VG Linz as the first disaster control unit.

The passage under the railway line was impassable due to trees and branches blocking it. This meant that the fire service could only get through to the districts behind it with difficulty via the railway embankment. The focus was therefore first on supplying the residents on the side of the railway embankment facing Dernau.

In addition to taking stock and pumping out cellars, IBCs (1000 l containers) were filled with water for the residents' hygiene.

After a local building contractor, later supported by the THW, had cleared the railway underpass of the mountains of branches and tree trunks, it was possible to reach the area between the railway embankment and the original course of the Ahr with vehicles.

The scene presented to the emergency services was catastrophic, particularly on the "former" Ahr bridge on the opposite side. Whole rows of houses were completely destroyed and some houses had been washed away by the floods.

Fortunately, no more people had to be rescued here. Only a person who needed medication was needed to carry the person.

It was not possible to reach the part of the town to the right of the Ahr from here. Therefore, shortly after the initial reconnaissance, fire chief Thomas Nelles drove a huge detour with a firefighter from Rech who was familiar with the area to the heights on the opposite side and assessed the accessibility of the sloping forest paths to the area of ​​operations. Fortunately, the local population had already taken care of themselves as best they could and prepared a helicopter landing pad, which was later also used for rescue and supply flights.

In the video from the Rhein-Zeitung, you can see the Ahr bridge shortly before it was destroyed.

Appeal: Please do not drive into the area of ​​operations without good reason. The few access roads and paths to the affected towns on the Ahr must be kept clear for emergency workers and those affected! Aid deliveries are organized through the Ahrweiler district. If you want to help, please contact the hotline there.